---
layout: post
title: "Culling the beeminders" 
date: 2025-06-14 23:40
published: true 
slug: "2025-06-14-culling-beeminders"
---

## The wisdom to say no (is something I struggle with, lol)

1. Being a learning nerd makes you feel like you can learn anything
2. When you feel like you can learn anything, you want to learn everything
3. When you want to learn everything, you want to learn as much as you can ASAP,
   because holy shit there's a lot to learn 
4. When you want to learn as much as you can ASAP, your list of extant learning
   projects will grow at a silly pace
5. Eventually you'll go "this is dumb" and, through the tears, archive some
   beeminders

## Goodnight, sweet Prince(s)
### John Boyd
- John Boyd project. I spent like 60 hours on this (10 hours reading the Corram
  bio before I started the beeminder)
- Absurdly fruitful, truly. And incomplete - I didn't get to deeply read all of
  Osinga - I did a very deep dive on chapter 3 (scientific zeitgeist), a shallow
  reading of all chapters, and began a deep dive on chapter 4 (scientific
  zeitgeist continued)
- I picked up more useful threads that I can enumerate here. Cybernetics, chaos
  theory, complexity theory, Boyd's "destruction and creation" paper re: mental
  model formation, the necessity of open systems, the unavoidability of
  uncertainty. General systems theory, the cognitive revolution, first wave AI.
  Really just an insanely fruitful book. I probably (definitely!) spent more
  time learning about Boyd's influences than Boyd's actual models. But I got a
  solid grokking of the full, in-depth OODA loop. I even presented (to a CEO and
  chief of staff at an effective altruism org) about
  Auftragstaktik/Fingerspitzengefuhl, during my in person work trial (re: how I
  could rapidise achieving hive mind with them)

### Heidegger
- Would love to learn more, but I got the high level overview (hermeneutics and
  the ontological shift, zuhandenheit vs vorhandenheit, our thrownness, our
  anxiety at not being the ground of our own being, hermeneutics (interpretation
  and understanding) as our core way of being
- Excited to instead be pivoting to Vervaeke, who I'm seeing as a kind of
  meta-Heidegger

### Software engineering!
- I might regret this one, this was the most painful decision

