---
layout: post
title: "I started work at 05:30 today" 
date: 2025-06-23 
published: true 
slug: "2025-06-23"
---

Ahhhhhh, getting up super early is so good!!! 

I did this for a while back at the start of my job hunt sprint, in March of this
year when I was _really_ sprinting in a very full time, 10+ poms a day type way. 

Since almost getting the role at Longview, I lost my momentum as I really wanted
that role, and there was a 23 day limbo period where I just couldn't get myself
to work on other applications (not particularly skillful, I know!) 

I did a bunch of other useful and fun stuff in that time, but now Longview fell
through, and a few other things, and I've been doing 4-5 poms per day of job
stuff and it just hasn't felt like enough to really get momentum and clear my
backlog of post-EA Global tasks. 

No longer!!! By 10:30 this morning I had done 8 pomodoros and polished off my
application to Philip Tetlock's organisation, the Forecasting Research
Institute. Felt so so good. Early mornings just feel so focused, so fresh.

I fell in a bit of a trap last week where I'd wake up at around 8, meditate,
stretch, exercise, do Math Academy, and then by the time I was ready to work on
job application it'd be 1pm, and I'd have kinda chill lunch-time energy, plus an
aversive big pile of things to do post EAG, so it was kind of an unpleasant
week in retrospect. 

It's clear that Math Academy is not the priority. I'd love to snap my fingers
and have really cracked math skills, but it's a long game. Better to just do 1
pom of maths a day consistently, than front-load it and do loads in the morning
and deplete my energy for getting a great job. 

Anyway, writing this real fast because I still need to do my Math Academy pom
and then I'm going to turn off all my devices and work out, meditate, stretch
and read my paperbacks. A book about Ghengis Kahn arrived today, and "How to
think like Socrates". Really loving reading atm! I feel like I had a longggg
drought where I just didn't have anything that felt compelling, which has
totally changed recently. Amusing Ourselves to Death was REALLY good, really
felt like a substantial nonfiction book written by an intelligent, erudite, well
educated person, rather than like the Cal Newport style of "this could have been
a blog post". Really felt like a conversation with a wise old man from an older
generation, loved it.

anyway, I need to get away from screens asap!!! My eyes hurt
